== System configuration ==

The solution mechanism allows to adjust the system configuration at installation time. The following configuration types can be customized:

* '''config.prop''': General system configuration
* '''config/namespaces.prop''': Namespace configuration
* '''config/providers.prop''': Provider registration
* '''config/providers.xml''': Provider configuration
* '''config/widgets.prop''': Widget registration
* '''config/widgets.xml''': Widget configuration
* '''config/acl/*''': ACL configurations (Enterprise Editions only)

In the following we explain these in detail.

=== Adjusting config.prop ===

The <code>config.prop</code> file contains system wide configuration switches as defined on [[Help:SystemConfiguration]]. Configuration options are given as key-value pairs as illustrated in the following example:

<source>
labelProperties=rdfs:label,dc:title,foaf:name
preferredLanguage=de
</source>

The content of this file is merged with the application's config.prop file and written to the application's file. The "merge" result contains the following properties:

* all properties (key, value) from the zip-file
* all properties (key, value) from the application where key is not defined by the zip-files.


=== Adjusting namespaces ===

The <code>namespaces.prop</code> maps namespace-prefixes to full URIs. The namespaces defined in this file are registered with the application's namespace service. 

Solutions can provide additional namespaces by adding key-value pairs (one item per line) as illustrated in the following example:

<source>
example=http://example.org/ontology/
</source>


=== Custom providers and provider configurations ===

The file <code>providers.prop</code> lists those providers that can be configured using the UI. The classes are registered with the application's provider service.

Custom providers (e.g., providers added in solutions through the [[Help:ProviderSDK]]) need to be registered as illustrated in the following example (one provider per line):

<source>
com.fluidops.iwb.provider.MyCustomProvider=true
</source>

To automatically configure a provider from a solution, the file <code>providers.xml</code> can be used. We recommend this to be used only by expert developers, and refer others to the provider configuration form UI described on [[Help:Providers]].

=== Custom widgets and widget configurations ===

The file <code>widgets.prop</code> lists the system's widgets. The classes are registered with the application's widget service.

Custom widgets (e.g., widgets added in solutions through the [[Help:WidgetSDK]]) need to be registered as illustrated in the following example (one widget per line):

<source>
MyDemoWidget=com.fluidops.iwb.widget.MyDemoWidget
</source>

To automatically configure a widget from a solution, the file <code>widgets.xml</code> can be used. This file contains the serialized widget configurations. We recommend making the configuration in the widget configuration UI as described on [[Help:Widgets]], and manually copy the respective configuration snippet from ''config/widgets-user.xml'' in the application's working directory. Note that this is an expert option.

=== Customizing ACLs ===

The enterprise editions of the fluidOps platform allows to customize ACLs as described on [[Help:UserManagement]]. In solutions, custom ACLs can be provided following theses schemes. Note that ACL files provided by solutions override the files available in the application. We recommend ACL changes to be done only by expert developers.